Preface

The Primary Curriculum hos been revised in the light of the Notional
Education Policy 2010 which emphasizes learning English os an
international language for communicating locally and globally. The
‘English for Today’ textbooks have been developed to help students attain
competencies in all four language skills in English through meaningful and
enjoyable activities. Emphasis has been given to listening and speaking
skills as the foundation on which to develop reading and writing skills. Topics
and themes have been selected in o way that would not only help students
address the needs of real-life situations, but would also inculcate human
values in them as well as broaden their mental horizon. Grammar points
ond planned octivities to develop students’ competence in all four longucge
skills have been presented within contexts in a systematic and graded way.

The ‘English for Today’ textbook is accompanied by a Teacher's Edition.
However, we ore aware that to conduct teaching and learning of English
most effectively and fruitfully, particularly at the primary stage the textbook
needs to be complemented with oudio-visual materials. We sincerely hope to
do so in the near future.

Curriculum development is 2a continuous process. Textbook is developed
based on curriculum. To make the young learners interested, enthusiastic
and dedicated, Bangladesh Awami League Government under the dynamic
leadership of the Honourable Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has taken initiatives to change the textbooks into four colours, and make interesting,
sustainable and distributed free of cost since 2009. The distribution of textbooks for all Students of Pre-primary, Primary, Secondary, Ibtediae, Dhakil,
Dhakhil Vocational and S.S.C Vocational level have been taken free of cost
across the country which is a historical initiative of the present government.
In this continuation, NCTB has developed and printed textbooks with quality
papers and four colours illustration according to revised curriculum
within a short time in this year as well.

It is to be mentioned here that this textbook was tried out during the
schoo! colendor yeor of 2013 in 32 Government primory schools in
different locations throughout the country to ensure its appropriateness to the
students. The contents and the illustrations have been refined based on the
feedback of the try-out ond on critical review. | offer my sincere thanks to all
concerned in this complex and significant process.

| also sincerely thank oll who hove been involved with the production and
publication of this textbook.

Professor Narayan Chandra Scha
Chairman
National Curriculum and Textbook Board, Bangladesh
